# Alliance leader Graha productivity guidelines
use of graha time management principles for being an alliance leader in rise of kingdoms. Graha is a time management, project management, and Ayurveda app by Eeshvar Das available on the Google Play store for newer Google security compliant devices. I want to get my rise of kingdoms playing time down under 1 hour a day. then move my playing time down under 30 minutes a day. after that I may be able to move my playing down to less than 15 or 5 minutes a day. I will make adjustments to these guidelines to make those time management goals realized. The reason I started playing mobile games again in the first place, is because my work is very stressful and I have not had time to adjust to the large stress amounts by replacing my time with adequate Ayurveda and alternate recreation options. following these time management guidelines for mobile app, play will allow other types of recreation to open up and will maximize my Ayurveda gains. I used to play EA FIFA mobile soccer quite often to give myself some reprieve from stress. now I am owning and managing my own league in EA. FIFA soccer usually spending only five or 10 minutes a day maximum.
## guidelines as ordered list of instructions in general guidelines on how to follow ordered list
go one character at a time starting at favorite character and ending at favorite character. favorite character should be your main alliance leader. in each character, follow the instructions in the following ordered lists one at a time without looping back to the first instruction in the list. when at the end of the list, move on to the next character. All other characters should not be favorites. All other characters should be iterated through from highest power to lowest power. should be no more than four normal characters. Don't engage in any game. play outside of these steps to maximize your personal productivity. The point is to allow Rise of Kingdoms players that are attracted to your alliance style to naturally join your alliance. if you have watched echo gaming, then you will know that echo gaming quit playing Rise of Kingdoms because of the large time commitment required by Rise of Kingdoms. echo gaming and some other game players prefer a smaller time commitment in games. I am creating this productivity guideline based from my graph app principles so that way I can increase my work productivity outside of recreation. You can follow these guidelines and you might find the same increases of productivity in your work. You may also find more time to add other types of recreation to your life.
1. event calendar screen. tap the icon in the upper right that leads to the event calendar screen. Remove any red notification dots so that the notification dots are removed from the main screen. Make any claims that you have earned along the way.
2. resource production. tap the resource production icons to collect all resources that have been produced including the blacksmith production. Don't start any new blacksmith materials production at this time.
3. Mail. Hit the mail button. Read and claim all non-personal mail. Don't handle personal mail yet.
4. chat and mail response. Scan the recent kingdom chat, alliance chat and personal mail. send one or two messages relevant to Kingdom chat scan. relevancy of message can also be gained from banner that streams across the top of the screen. it may take some time for a response from the first message that is relevant. You may want to save your second response for some time. if no one has any relevant response to your first message, You may not need to send a second message. You can send an additional one or two messages in the alliance chat if needed. try to be concise. write the message in a way that you can leave and there will still be no misunderstanding or lingering communication needs. You can always check back tomorrow. do the same with personal mail as you did with alliance chat. there's no need to respond to every message. if you can blanket response to multiple people at the same time, that is okay. total you should be sending no more than five or six messages between all of these messaging options.
5. Alliance. Hit the Alliance button to go to the Alliance Management screen.
6. Alliance notification dots. clear all notification dots as quickly as possible without engaging in new endeavors.
7. War rally. you can join a rally in the war section if you see when you like. 
8. technology purchases. purchase the cost of technology completion after donations or maxed and then changing the officers recommendation.
9. Alliance shop. Make sure the shop has minimum inventory of each item, if you are following my shop guidelines.
10. purchase 1 minute speedups items. purchase 20 of them total. restock the 20 that you have purchased back in the store.
11. exit Alliance menu. The point is to not spend too much time here. clear the notification dots and get out of the alliance menu.
12. food and wood production. if you are following my guidelines on farm and lumber mill production then do those now. at any time I can go ahead and designate any one of my characters to do only farm and lumber mill production. if this is one of those characters, then switch characters to the next character and restart from the top from without moving on to the next steps.
13. builders Hut. go to the builders Hut and hit the build button. if you can build the suggested building, then go ahead and build it. try not to spend the gems in order to increase your building's. I usually have a preferred method to spend gems prior to getting to screens that ask me to spend gems. You can pull resources out of your items bag as necessary to make building possible.
14. Upgrade your city hall. press the upgrade button to upgrade your city hall. go to whatever building upgrades are necessary for a city hall upgrade, and upgrade them if possible.
15. tavern. go to the tavern and Open as many chests as possible.
16. academy. go to the academy and research whatever you can afford. if you need to upgrade the academy at this time and there is a builder slot open then you can go ahead and upgrade the academy.
17. troops training. if you are increasing your troops count, You can initiate whatever military training you want to do right now.
18. Repeat steps 12 through 17 until you run out of applicable speed boosts. You may want to avoid wasting expensive speed boosts. this is why I put the 1 minute speed boost here. if anything takes longer than 15 seconds and you have maximized the value of your speed boost spend, stop using speed boosts and move on to the next step.
19. city management. go to the city management screen and activate all production boosts and gathering boosts.
20. blacksmith. go to the blacksmith and see if you have enough resources to refine or forge. if you need to produce new materials for a blacksmith goal, you can increase your production at this time.
21. items. there may be new items in the other section of your items bag that you want to open up or use. 
22. campaign. campaign only needs to be done once or twice a month. Play until you can't win all three stars and then stop.
23. main quest. do the main quest item if it is possible to be done at this time and if it doesn't take more than a couple of minutes. collect all the claims that may have become residual.
24. side quest. do one side quest item if it is possible and it does not take more than one minute. collect any claims that maybe residual.
25. commanders. go to the commander screen and Upgrade your commanders as quickly as possible to your own personal preferences.
26. event calendar claims. go back to the event calendars, screen and claim anything that you may have accomplished.
27. gathering. send your troops out to gather the needed resources.
28. You can zoom out now to assess the situation with neighboring alliances. take only a couple of minutes at most. Saving this step to last may help reduce reactiveness. try to be comfortable with the fact that you are maximizing your time management in your personal life. disputes or peacekeeping talks with neighboring alliances can wait until the next day. everybody needs to get more sleep than they are these days anyway.
29. switch to the next character as described in the heading and go through this list again.
